We just want to give tools to the whole
scientific community.
>> We want to understand how biology works.
I want to understand the genetics of
this person. I want to understand the
risks they have to different illnesses.
My goal is to be able to treat the
individual as an individual, understand
the mechanisms and [music] be able to
intervene.
>> We'll have a bigger impact by getting
this in more scientist hands quicker by
doing it as open source projects
instead. It's not just like there's some
factory somewhere that you can pay to
[music] produce the data. You actually
need to invent new novel scientific
approaches. The theory isn't that we're
going to cure the diseases. We're not.
It's that we want to help accelerate the
pace of progress for the whole
scientific field. We folded over 1.1
[music] billion proteins and predicted
their structures. And we didn't design a
model for antibodies. We didn't design a
model to be able to bind one particular
target. [music] We just designed a model
that could understand proteins. If we
could design a protein to actually
change the physiology, then we can
actually cure someone.
Today on No Priors, we're joined by Mark
Zuckerberg, Priscilla Chan, and Alex
Reeves. We'll be talking about Biohub
and all their various efforts to [music]
now start applying AI at scale to do
world models of cells and different
levels of interactions across biology.
Mark, Priscilla, thank you for doing
this.
>> Yeah, thanks for having us. This was
fun.
>> Alex, congratulations on new missions.
>> Thank you.
>> You guys made BioHub your primary
philanthropic effort and then committed
$500 million to this virtual biology
initiative. Can you tell us a little bit
about, you know, why do that and how did
you go from we should fund this to this
is like who we are?
>> So, Biohub in its current form, we're
super excited about. We feel like it's a
really good fit for who we are and what
we bring to the table and what we can
achieve together. But this work started
10 years ago when we were thinking about
how can we give back and Mark had Mark
wanted to build an organization that
could cure, prevent and manage all
disease by the end of the century. And
we had a series of hilarious meetings
with scientists that
like famous Nobel Prize winning
scientists were just laughing at us. Is
that was that your starting line? We're
just going to cure all disease.
>> No. No. And to be clear, we don't think
that we're going to be the ones curing
the diseases. Our our goal was always to
build tools that could accelerate the
whole scientific field. That way, the
scientific field collectively could cure
all the diseases. But still, I thought
that by the end of the century was a
stretch. Now, I think it's like uh too
conservative. And so we kept being like,
"Okay, well, we had these series of
funny, awkward, educational
conversations where we're like, okay,
but like why? Like why do you think it's
impossible?" And like, you know, just
being uh the the person in the room is
just like, "Well, I don't know why. You
tell me." Finally, we got people to like
they're like, "Fine, if you really must
know." And we're like, "No, we do. It
seems important." [laughter]
um it's you know they were like well we
work in silos and um when you publish
information doesn't get shared it gets
locked up for long periods of time and
we don't have tooling you know they gave
the example of like we build a great
tool by one posttock in a lab and it
lives on their computer and when they
graduate the tool is gone and they just
it was what we heard was very hard to
build shared tools to move science
faster build the shared knowledge base
to quickly move science faster and
that's sort of where we began in
thinking about okay like if those are
the problems like what can we contribute
>> yeah I mean so the original biohub model
was basically focus on long-term tool
development by bringing together
engineers and scientists um across
multiple universities to focus on
long-term tool development and it
basically it like worked and you know we
started off with um with CZI doing a
number of different things and I think
over time we just felt like okay the
science piece is really working and we
just kept on investing more and more and
more in it until now it is basically the
primary and main thing that we're doing
and we've expanded the original San
Francisco Biohub um to a handful now at
this point there's New York there's
Chicago um the real focus and the
unifying theme at this point is um is
the virtual biology initiative around
taking the unique um data sets that are
able to be generated um in order to
model um effectively starting with the
smallest pieces of of proteins but then
eventually cells and whole biological
systems. But that's kind of how we've
evolved is, you know, this this idea
that um that we talk about around that
some of this is an AI problem and you
want to build a frontier AI lab, but you
need to couple that with a frontier
biology effort that can do the work of
um of of basically being able to uh
understand and get the data that you
need to actually be able to build these
models. Because unlike language models,
well, there's just like a lot of data
out there on the internet. That's not
really the case with biology. I mean,
there are obviously a bunch of different
data sets that exist that academia and
scientists have generated over the the
decades, but a lot of the stuff that I
think we want to put into this, it
doesn't exist, right? It's like you want
to be able to visualize things that
people haven't been able to see before,
which is why we're doing the the imaging
work. You want to be able to record
things uh that are going on inside the
body, which is why we're doing the kind
of cellular engineering work, right? you
want to be able to measure things like
inflammation um in ways that haven't
been possible which is why the you know
Chicago Biohub is focused on building
those kind of devices and being able to
do that and that will fundamentally
create um new types of data sets that
will allow new types of models and I
think is just a very exciting thing that
um going back to what you're saying if
the if the scientific field it primarily
needs um kind of tool development that
now is going to empower scientists
across the the field to be able to do
their work faster
that's what we think we can provide
through this kind of long-term focus on
tool development. But the I I think
there's a fun throughine on where we
started and you know bringing us to our
work to uh with that Alex is driving now
is that our very first request for
application RFA here was around single
cell sequencing and um and we wanted to
look at sort of like the RNA that is
transcribed in individual cells and that
b that was possible but it was still
pretty early on in understanding how
different cells were expressing their
DNA to the point where at the beginning
we were just funding methods like
getting people to describe how to do it
so that others could share that
methodology and then that became um us
funding the human cell atlas which is
now one of the largest um databases of
uh single cell transcripttos. It was
getting hard for scientists to annotate
the data. So we built cellby gene which
was like a very simple annotation tool
that scientists could use to make use of
that data. Then a community came around
cellby gene built around cellby gene and
started contributing more and more data
that we had nothing to do with sort of
creating or funding or u making happen
in the world. And now cellby gene is a
corpus of knowledge that a lot of uh the
um transcrytoic based models are based
off of and is used regularly by the
scientific community. But still there
are always critiques like this is just
stamp collecting like you're
[clears throat] just gathering bits of
knowledge well sorry bits of data um and
we're not going to be able to pull
scientific knowledge and wisdom and
insights out of and and we're like well
we didn't have an answer for a while and
then imagine our delight when large
language models uh became a huge topic
of conversation that could make sense of
large amounts of data and I just for me
is
What if we could actually understand how
biology worked? Um, move it from a
discovery based science to an
engineering based science where we could
systematically understand how living
beings, living cells worked [snorts] and
um, be able to understand why things go
wrong. And so when we saw that moment,
we're like, this is it. Something really
big could happen here. Alex, you were uh
you started at Metaphair um but you were
on the path to you know you had
assembled a team at evolutionary scale
and you raised venture and you were
making progress in your models. What was
the pitch from Mark and Priscilla who
said like that's actually the right way
to go after the mission?
>> Well, I think for me it was really kind
of the moment when I understood that um
you know they they really saw this as as
an integration of frontier AI and
frontier biology. And I think um I had
developed conviction that you know this
is really a a new era of science that's
that's just beginning kind of what's
going to be possible with artificial
intelligence and you know we're in the
age of information theory at scale and
we have these systems that can basically
kind of predict the next token and they
can you know learn world models from
that they can learn biology from the
data and so you know I I think that it
just it was really clear that you know
to build kind of that next that next
kind of institution for the next era,
you would really need to have frontier
artificial intelligence. You would have
to have frontier biology. You would need
to start to put those things in feedback
and really have models that are learning
from the biology. And I think you know
just and you need the right scale and
the right people and so this this just
really felt I think like the way to do
that. There's a variety of different
models that you all have been working on
and I think it's kind of interesting
because some of the earliest
breakthroughs in biology were things
like alpha fold where you know it was a
Google model that showed that you could
do protein folding at scale in a really
interesting way that people didn't
realize was very tractable and this was
pre sort of the really big transformer
waves that came later and then you're
working on a variety of different things
at different scale right you're doing
incremental molecular modeling and
protein folding you're doing cell-based
stuff you're thinking about
interrogating larger scale systems in
biology how well do you think that
extends from sort of the micro to the
macro. You mentioned almost starting
with building blocks and building up,
but modeling cellular behavior is very
different from modeling protein folding.
The data is very different. The modeling
is different. I'm just curious like do
you think it's all uh similar in terms
of it's just data and you train stuff or
do you think it's actually uh there's
some differences in terms of how you
actually have to deal with these
systems?
>> I mean, there are probably some
differences. I mean, you can probably
talk more to the specifics around this,
but like I mean, I think each layer is
going to end up being somewhat
qualitatively different, right? I mean
the the but you need to be able to
understand the protein interactions in
order to be able to understand how cells
work. So you can't just go straight to
cells in a way without understanding the
protein modeling and then if you're
trying to understand something like the
you know the way the immune system works
or a bunch of cells interact together um
then um you know it's tough to do that
without first understanding cells. I
mean you might be able to at like a very
high level of abstraction simulate a
system but if you really want to like
understand how it's going to work you
kind of want to build the simulations at
each level hierarchically. So that's
basically the approach that we're going
through starting with the um the
building blocks and the and the protein.
But yeah, I mean I think that there's
going to be different types of data that
you want to collect for each um the
modeling techniques. I think we'll see.
I mean that'll all keep on advancing
across the board. But I do think that
like a big part of the strategy is this
view that you need to build it up
hierarchically. And you know, one of the
things that's unique about us in the
space is we were very intentional that
the the AI efforts and the wet lab
efforts were a single effort and we've
done a lot of work to bring them
together. And the really neat thing that
we can do is really try to pull and
gather data that helps us connect um
across sort of the hierarchy. You know,
you can look at transcrytoics with space
within a cell and look at where it's
localizing. We can look at um
translucent zebra fish and look at the
development across uh different cells
and when the brain develops. We have
sensors that allow us to look at cell
cell communication and different
molecules. And so we can be strategic
about the types of uh experiments and
data we want to collect that helps us
bridge across these that makes it so
that there's some connective tissue that
helps drive the modeling that you know
the modeling magic that happens.
>> Yeah. The reason I asked the question by
the way is I used to be a biologist. I
have a PhD in biology and I worked in
wet labs for almost a decade and
everything else.
>> Are you looking for a job? Uh [laughter]
um I I'll we can talk about that later.
[laughter]
>> At this point in my career, you know,
>> I love my aggressive
>> recording. I'm like I'm like Danny
Glover, you know, in the Lethal Weapon.
I'm almost at retirement. Um [laughter]
but I think um you know, one of the
things that was always lacking was this
integrative nature across the different
layers of biology. And the developmental
biologists would work on their own, the
molecular biologists would be doing
different experiments. And so that's
what I was curious about. Yeah.
>> Typically there's a reductionist view of
biology and there's a systems view and
those people didn't really work together
deeply. And so one of the exciting
things about what you're doing actually
is how you're bridging that. And so
that's that was kind of the basis for
the question as well.
>> Yeah. And if I could add something
there, you know, it's I think that you
know we're in the age of this kind of
information theory in biology. And so,
you know, there there are levels of of
complexity and hierarchy in biology and
kind of each level is is made up of and,
you know, constituted by the lower
levels. And so, as you want to have that
kind of more complete description and
you want to have systems that can really
generalize and begin to actually answer,
you know, experimental questions
digitally that you could ask in the lab,
you know, you need to have kind of the
right basis for modeling at every level.
And so I I think what's really unique
about what we can do is to as as as as
Priscilla and Mark were saying, you
know, really build information at each
of these different layers, collect them,
collect kind of those connection points,
but then also really kind of do it at
the scale that will reveal that
underlying information architecture. And
that's going to be really critical to
actually be able to build digital
representations that can answer new
experimental questions.
One of the things that inspires me most
about this effort is really what
Priscilla said, which is like, well, uh,
there's so much we actually don't
understand about biology and what if we
could, which I think is actually very
different from lots of other incredibly
interesting and useful AI problems we
attack. We're like trying to replicate
human behavior and I'm like, a lot of
that data is, you know, on the internet
or captured and without pretending to
understand all human behavior, you can
predict a lot of it. I I thought one of
the most interesting things in your
release was actually you know the like
mechanistic interpretability stuff you
alluded to which is can we actually
extract new knowledge from um you know
what the model believes is happening
right uh can you talk a little bit about
that
>> yeah I'm really excited about that so I
I think you know in mechanistic
interpretability kind of traditionally
it's been applied to large language
models with the goal of understanding
you know kind of what is the
representation space of a large language
model how does
um compute things and does that really
connect to you know what we understand
about um our intuitive understanding of
of the world and so there's I think this
really rich toolkit that has been
developed to um to start to be able to
ask those questions so kind of what does
that mean for for biology one of the
classes of models that we train are
these uh protein language models so
they're really you trained on the codes
of proteins and so anything they learn
about biology is is kind of emergent and
we've seen that they can learn things
like biological structure and biological
function and that's just kind of
emergent from this you know token
prediction training task. So you know as
we think about like mechanistic
interpretability in those models you
know we're we're really seeing the
unknown because the models have been
trained on billions of protein
sequences. is they've been trained on,
you know, both known and unknown
biology. And yet they're developing
these representations that start to kind
of capture things that we can really see
correspond to that reductive picture of
biology that's been built up over the
centuries. So kind of you can you can
start to connect the dots between
proteins where we kind of really don't
know anything about them um with with
proteins where we we do know something
because there's that kind of underlying
structure grammar that's that's linking
them in the representation space of the
model.
>> Uh and at the extreme it could be you
know we're going to understand systems
in the body that we didn't before or the
mechanism of action for a new treatment
be because we can ask the model right
interrogate that representation.
>> That's right. The hope is that you kind
of really learn the underlying basis for
how it's making the predictions and so
you open up the black box and you can
actually understand kind of the biology
that the model is representing.
>> So a asking for a friend um uh you know
you you guys all believe in uh
venturebacked companies as a way to have
impact on the world. Um, what was it
like
collecting data on zebra fish or the
span of the data or the wet lab work or
just the scale? Like what makes this a
better fit for this big nonprofit, you
know, ecosystem effort versus a
venture-backed company?
>> Um, well, I think we just want to give
tools to the whole scientific community.
And I mean like so I I think in order to
have the biggest impact I mean part of
it is just we're I mean it's not
actually clear that we couldn't run it
as a business if we wanted to. I just
think that we'll have a bigger impact by
getting this in more scientist hands
quicker
>> um by doing it as open source projects
instead. So um yeah I mean I think that
that's uh that's that's kind of the
approach but I I don't know it's an
interesting question. I I'm not sure
that I mean obviously you were doing it
as a as a nonprofit
company um a bunch of the modeling
before then you run into certain issues
I mean you have to raise a large amount
of money in order to build a compute
clusters um you know I mean it's I think
in a lot of ways the data is actually
even more of a constraint and um because
if you look at like the scale of these
models compared to language models
they're smaller but they're smaller
because the amount of data is less in
order to get the data uh it's not just
like there's some factory somewhere that
you can pay to produce the the data like
you actually need to invent new novel
scientific approaches to be able to do
the you know for example the type of
cellular engineering we're doing in New
York or the types of devices in Chicago
which is why you know when we're talking
about this concept of frontier biology
and frontier AI the frontier biology is
you need to do real science to advance
different biological methods in order to
be able to observe the things that
create the data that go to the model.
Um, so it's not just like an
off-the-shelf thing that you can create.
Now, that's a pretty big effort. I don't
know that there are like that many
things like that that are done as um as
biotechs. I think it's just the scale of
the ambition of what we're doing, the
horizon over which we're committed to
doing it. I think part of the theory is
like if you're building tools that are
this complicated, you kind of want to
have a 10 to 15 year time horizon on on
building out these efforts. And then the
scale of capital required. I mean, I
guess there's no rule that said that you
couldn't do it as like an incredibly
well-funded startup, but I think that
this just made more sense. And then it
also is is simplifying strategically to
not have to think about how you're going
to make money with the different things.
I mean, we just we want to get the
models in people's hands. We release
them as open source. I think that that's
like a very valuable thing to do. And
again, I mean, the the theory isn't that
we're going to cure the diseases. We're
not. um it's that we want to help
accelerate the pace of progress for the
whole scientific field.
>> As the person least experienced with
making money here, I would say that
there you the sort of neutral nonprofit
nature of our work actually helps
harness more people to enter this uh
effort. Um, and to actually achieve the
mission of like understanding the
totality of human biology and to cure,
prevent, manage all disease, you
actually do need the entire academic
biotech industry to come together and to
work on this in a sort of unified way.
um in part because there's a lot of
talent out there and it's it's not
helpful to leave any talent uh exclude
any talent from the effort and there's a
super long tale of diseases. Um there
are the common ones and even the common
ones I think if you unbundle heart
disease, cancer, neurodeenerative
diseases even if you unbundle like
dementia or uh depression there are many
many many subcategories that become more
and more niche and that's not even
looking at the long long tale of rare
diseases. those often get orphaned and
don't get brought along when we're sort
of looking at what the most efficient
way to impact the lives of many. But if
you sort of decentralize the effort and
put the tools in many people's hands,
you start getting people who are like,
you know what, I am super interested in
spinal muscular atrophy and that's
something I care deeply about and if you
put the tools in that person's hands,
they're going to be able to make
progress. In a way, if you had to focus
your efforts and make big bets, you
probably wouldn't because it's just a
niche individual uh small group disease
[snorts] that actually will in turn if
we can understand that disease process
helps us unlock knowledge about a lot
more about the human how the human body
works.
>> Do you have any thoughts or predictions
in terms of what disease areas this work
will impact first? I know it's very hard
to be predictive about these things, but
just given the nature of the work and
the nature of the models, are there
areas you're most optimistic about in
the uh short to medium term?
>> I that's actually not how I think about
it at least.
>> The way I think about it is like we want
to understand how biology works. The
ideal world is you would say I
understand I understand the genetics of
this person.
>> So I want I want to think about people
at the individual level. I want to
understand the genetics of this person.
I want to understand the risks they have
to different illnesses. I I want to
understand the mechanistic connection
between say a diff a gene variant a
protein and a disease process because if
you understand that through chain then
you can design a protein design a drug
bespoke to them and actually make an
intervention and right now and I'm sure
we've all had experiences being sick and
if you have something that's even
remotely um non-standard you go you go
into PubMed
You look up a paper, you look up the
supplement, and then you start going
through the methods, and you're like, am
I represented in this paper, and we're
just making guesses. We really have no
mechanistic understanding. We're saying
like, okay, you're kind of like these
people that we studied, and this drug
kind of impacts the pathway that we
think is implicated. Let's try and see
if anything happens. And time passes and
sometimes it works and sometimes it
doesn't. So my goal is to be able to
treat the individual as an individual,
understand the mechanisms and be able to
intervene. And there are different
diseases that are at different stages of
filling out that whole through line. And
so for some diseases, you just want to
understand which genet gene variants
actually cause disease and which don't.
And that is that in itself can be super
empowering to patients. Um and if beyond
that there are some diseases where we
understand the chain we just can't
intervene and change a specific protein
function. That's super exciting too.
Like if we could design a protein to
actually change the physiology then we
can actually cure someone. But to me,
like that is just as exciting as
understanding contributing to our
understanding of like how someone gets
sick in the first place.
>> Yeah. That's a very exciting vision
because you're basically saying you can
bring generalizable tools to provide
very personalized things for each
individual person. Yes.
>> And that's the power of the approach is
you have these big models that you build
that can then apply anywhere. I know
that you mentioned earlier that you were
going to try and cure prevent all
diseases um within a hundred years and
you mentioned hey it could actually be
sooner now given all the advances in AI.
Do you have some thought of when we
think we'll be closer to that goal or
some?
>> I mean, I'm optimistic it'll be sooner.
I mean, I think that the thing that's
complicated is that it's a dynamic
system, right? So, if you fix something,
there will obviously be future things
that you need to work on. So, I don't
think that the current set of things
that we're aware of are going to be the
only things that need to get worked out.
But, but I don't know. I think that the
progress with AI is is really um is is
obviously, you know, very exciting on
this. Um, the other thing that that I'd
say just adding to to what you were
saying um a second ago is we really look
at more kind of systems than um than
specific diseases. So for example, one
area that seems really important to
understand is inflammation. We talked
about this a bunch. This is a big focus
of the Chicago Biohub. There's a lot of
data on that that's very it's um it
seems quite clear that it's connected to
a bunch of different diseases but we
don't rather than studying the specific
diseases we think that by trying to
understand inflammation more broadly
that will make it so that other
companies that can then use these tools
can work on specific therapies. Um,
another example is and I think that the
um the immune system I think is a very
good um case to study for some of the
work that we're doing in cellular
engineering and when we're kind of lad
up from proteins to cells to like whole
dynamic systems within the body. I think
that that one makes sense. I mean it's
sort of privileged. It can the cells can
travel around through the body all that
you know. So obviously that has a big
part in addressing different diseases.
How do you make the immune system
function better? But exactly how do you
connect that last mile I think is going
to be more something that biotech or
other um academics individually studying
things will be better suited to do. So
this is like kind of how we think about
building out the tool set that just
helps accelerate all these other folks.
whether the timeline is uh 10 years
hopefully you know less than 100 now um
I I think it's useful for maybe your uh
average doctor or patient human being
everybody's a patient um to to think
about like what's externally visible in
the progress here you worked with
patients for a long time at UCSF like
what should doctors look out for what
should people look out for if you're
actually accelerating progress
>> this is the part you know I'm super
excited about the progress for us
especially with this launch um that uh
Alex and his team have put forth and I
think it's very clear that science is
going to start moving pretty quickly.
>> Um and I think the thing that's less
clear to me is um exactly how we
translate to the clinic and what that
looks like. And I think what has to
change is actually the way we do
clinical research. Um and um my hope is
that we're really shortening the
distance between bench research and
patient impact. Um but there's a lot of
steps there that we need um people who
actually take care of patients to think
creatively and um think about how to
deploy safely. And that's uh that's a
gap that we have some work in. We
partner with Jennifer Downper Cures um
uh program at UCSF. So we we we're
dipping our toe in understanding how the
deployment of research needs to change
given how quickly um uh research will be
progressing but that one is still I
think is still shaping up.
>> Mhm. Maybe I could say something about
our most recent launch because I think
it also
>> please we should explicitly
>> Yeah. So you know cuz I guess it was
just a week ago about now. So we um
announced uh the new ESM fold and so
this is basically um an open system for
scientific discovery in protein biology.
It's a world model of protein biology
that's been trained um it's a it's it's
it's a language model based. So it's
been trained on billions of protein
sequences, kind of learns these emergent
representations of protein biology, and
then we can use it to make predictions
of atomic resolution protein structure,
and we can use it to um and it's it's
it's it's really fast. So it's blazing
fast. So it's kind of um you know,
illustrating this paro optimal frontier
of kind of speed and accuracy in
structure prediction. And so this allows
us to kind of characterize, you know,
really vast kind of stretches of the
protein universe. So we folded over 1.1
billion proteins and and predicted their
structures and and identified kind of
features connecting um all of them
through mechanistic interpretability.
But I think the thing that that I
thought was most exciting about this
model is it's it's this really general
model of of kind of protein biology. And
so you can you can use it as a world
model. you can actually really start to
search the space of the world model to
design new proteins. And um it's it's
really, you know, hitting
state-of-the-art across um pretty much
every structure prediction benchmark and
especially on protein protein
interactions and protein antibbody
interactions, which is really critical
for therapeutic design. And so what we
found is you can actually now use the
model to design proteins and to design
actually singlechain antibodies. Um and
so you can do all of this digitally and
then you know really in a small number
of experimental trials basically like a
96 well plate. Um you know se select
from hundreds of thousands of
trajectories digitally actually
synthesize you know 96
um proteins test them in the lab in a
really kind of short easy experimental
cycle. and we found nanomolar binders
there. And so, you know, that's really
the level um for for therapeutic
activity. So, it's it's it's really I
think showing that you can have these
kind of general purpose models um that
that can, you know, we didn't design a
model for antibodies. We didn't design a
model to, you know, to be able to bind
one particular target. You know, we just
designed a model that could understand
proteins and you kind of get protein
design as an emergent property. And then
I also think it illustrates um this this
kind of the power of open science and
open source because you know we we
release this as basically an open
discovery engine and so really anyone
can build on it. And so it takes what
are these really um intensive laboratory
experiments where you know you have to
screen through hundreds of thousands or
millions of antibodies and high
throughput screens in the lab and you
know you can really just kind of spin up
an instance and compute and now you know
be able to generate antibodies. you
should say more about sort of like we
took that data uh when we did an
antibbody screen and then we validated
we looked at PDL in cells and then we
looked at it under the uh cryo and sort
of how all that complemented validated
what you were seeing in the models.
>> That's right. Yeah. So I mean I think
it's really critical you know to to
actually go and and characterize these
molecules in the lab and it's you know
we have a um a structural biology center
here. where we have um incredibly
powerful uh cryo uh EM microscopes and
and so we're really able to kind of look
at these proteins biohysically and
functionally and so you know we designed
proteins for um several uh
therapeutically relevant targets and
we're able to confirm their their
function and some
>> when it works the way it's supposed to.
>> Yeah, it's very [clears throat] amazing.
>> We're able to look at the structure also
so you can see atomic resolution kind of
at the binding interfaces.
>> Correct. I know a lot of your work is
really focused on basic research and
kind of building out the fundamentals.
If I look at actual translation into
drugs or drug development, often a
clinical trial will be 15 years. It'll
cost $ 1.5 billion. About 50 million of
that often is the molecule and
pre-clinical work and it's a few years
of work. And the other 1.45 billion in
decade plus is actually the drug
development side of it. A lot of that
seems to be gated on some regulatory
issues. Some of it's recruitment, it's a
variety of things, but a lot of it also
has to do with the failure of drugs and
trials around things like absorption or
toxicity or things like that. Have you
considered at all tackling that other
chain of sort of molecular design and
thinking or is the primary focus more on
the basic biology and sort of the
initial sort of molecules?
>> I mean at least my hope in uh building
this like comprehensive model of how you
know cells work is actually also being
able to predict offtarget effects. I
think you can do some of that actually
with um biological models because right
now some of the offtarget effects are we
just didn't know you know your kidney
cell also expressed this receptor and
then when we test it in human like we
see it happening and we see uh renal
toxicity and so being and if you have a
single cell atlas that looks at all the
different cell types um some of which
actually were not predicted before we
modeled them you can start looking at
which cells actually do have receptors
for the target you thought you were
exclusively targeting and be able to
predict some of these downstream effects
before we get into the human trials. And
I think that that's that's actually one
of the more exciting applications of uh
the like a transcrytoic [clears throat]
uh model to to understand actually how
the different cells will react when you
intervene and do something. Um and you
know as I but I think when you think
about delivery mechanisms and um patient
care you start that's where you start
having to be creative about um what you
asked like what disease do you want to
cure first. There are certain diseases
that will be easier to uh like deliver a
therapeutic to or uh the riskreward is
uh makes more sense. And you know, I
think we were all inspired by baby KJ uh
I think last year now when um the team
at CHOP was able to deliver a crisper
therapeutic to edit a mutation that he
had would have that would have
inevitably led him to uh significant uh
neurody neurotoxicity
and um altered his life. But we were
able to uh that disease was very
carefully chosen because we needed to
target his liver cells and if we could
easily deliver um a product that would
work in his liver and I think that's
when the creativity the um the
wherewithal to choose the right
applications can help us unlock the
first applications. Mhm.
>> Maybe something just to add to that
also, you know, because I mean kind of
you described the conventional, you
know, drug development process, right?
And I I think, you know, these kind of
tools have the potential to have a lot
of impact on that process. But, you
know, what's what's interesting is to
really start to think about kind of the
new paradigms that can open up and you
know, what does it mean if if you can,
you know, the barrier to develop a drug,
to design a molecule, you know, to kind
of get through all of those stages is so
much lower. And so you have programmable
biology and you can you know really
start to you know create a a medicine
for every individual patient. I think
that has enormous implications for how
we you know how we do drug development
um and what the future of medicine looks
like.
>> Yeah. It'll be an exciting day when the
FDA accepts like a virtual clinical
trial for the phase one or something or
you know that's based on some personal
view of that person. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Or even short of that, like
thinking about the specific like
mechanisms where you see this
acceleration, like I imagine if people
feel like they can predict impact in
kidney cells um or have a stronger
perspective on talks because they have
this broader understanding, they'll be
willing to try many more um programs,
right?
>> Yeah. The recruitment could also change
and we we have this program rare is one
and the basic idea is that a lot of
people focus on the the most common
diseases but there's this long tale and
the economics don't quite work out for
companies to focus on those diseases but
if you can make it so that the groups of
patients can kind of come together and
organize and say hey we would take a an
experimental drug on this then it
actually because of the cost that you're
talking about and how that's a huge
amount of the the overall cost if you
can flip that then it actually makes it
um set the economics make a lot more
sense to then if you can generate
something more easily and you can pair
it with um a group of of people. I think
one of the interesting things from you
know science and engineering is that
often you know you can hit your head
against the wall on the common problems
and and in this case diseases but a lot
of times you like learn a lot more about
a system from finding some kind of
>> you know rare or like weird side thing
that's happening in edge case. Um, so I
don't know. I I think that that's like
always been kind of an interesting part
of this that actually connects pretty
well to this because now you're going to
be able to enable a long tale of new
kind of ideas to get tried and enable
them to potentially get tested more
easily.
>> Yeah, that's a really good point on rare
um on in our rare disease cohorts. First
of all, they're incredibly inspiring and
powerful, but patient groups are
self-organizing patient registries,
natural history registries, um bio
banks, um they're organizing their own
clinical trials. There's gene therapy
that uh one disease group has moved
forward over the course of like I want
to say like 3 to 5 years rather than
decades. And the speed is so fast
because um the patients themselves have
organized the resources that a a
scientist or a clinician might need to
and it's it's it's it's incredible.
>> But I think to some degree you're going
to need something like this because
there are going to be many more new
things that can get created. But that
doesn't mean that for like the general
population that you're not going to want
the same level of vetting that we've had
historically. But making it so that
people who want to be on more of the
frontier have the ability to do that is
is I think also going to be pretty
helpful.
>> Mhm. Yeah. Letting people opt in to be
part of trials I think is one of the big
shifts that is starting to happen but
could really help accelerate biology in
general.
>> All three of you have mentioned um at
different points like the power of open
ecosystems in such a large space. Like I
think some of that logic around open-
source and the breath or diversity of
data collection that you were
describing. Um it should also apply in
the like language model world and the
multimodal AI world like do you
[clears throat] think that's right? Does
any of the work you're doing here change
how you think about AI and meta? I mean,
I think it's sort of a similar
philosophy overall and you know,
Priscilla was talking about this that,
you know, a lot of our our focus is
building tools that empower individuals
to do things and that's a sort of a
common theme across a lot of the things
that that I work on is just kind of
putting the technology in individuals
hands. We don't believe in this like
very centralized future where there
should be a small number of institutions
that um that basically are are advancing
all this stuff. Our vision is not that
there's going to be like some central
super intelligence that solves all of
science. I think like people are really
important and I think we'll be more
important in the future and giving
people more tools to be more productive
is going to be like a critical part of
any kind of positive future that both
and that's how progress has always been
made historically, right? It's not um
through centralization. It's through
empowering individuals to try things
that are somewhat out of the mainstream
that other people didn't think were good
ideas because they thought they were
good ideas that already have been done.
Um, so I I think that that's that's very
central to the whole ethos of um I mean
to some degree it's like why you create
something like social media, right? To
give people a voice. It's you know I
think a lot of the the stuff that we
that I care about in terms of empowering
people with individual AI open source is
one instantiation of it. It's not the
only way to do it. Um, it certainly is
one way that you basically are saying
we're going to take this technology and
put it in everyone's hands. In terms of
science, I think it really makes sense
and we're deeply committed to open
source. Um, there are obviously
interesting considerations on this that
are important too because there's a lot
of considerations around biosafety and
things like that that we're going to
need to balance and think through how to
how to handle. Um, but I think overall
this is like very deep in the ethos of
the work that we're doing both at Biohub
and like probably a theme for a lot of
the stuff that I do is just like we we
believe that a positive future is one
where you build a technology as a tool.
You put it in individuals hands and
that's kind of how society makes
progress.
you have um uh this like I think uh
incredibly ambitious mission at Biohub
and yet you know um the AI scientists
that work here could also go work in
commercial enterprises. How do you think
about the talent and like how to bring
people to Biohub?
>> Um I mean where do you want to start? I
I [laughter] think you know um yeah I
mean it's it's a very um hot market for
AI researchers but I think that part of
the part of what that means is that um
there's a lot of uh demand and you like
they're very in demand and can work on
the things that they want to work on.
>> Um and I think this gets back to this
point again about frontier AI and
frontier biology, right? So if um so
yeah, I mean I think like the AI
researchers who work here could go work
on on language models or things at any
of the the main labs. Um but those labs
don't have the frontier biology part
attached to it. So I think that there's
like also a just very large mission
component of this which is like there's
an ability to do this unique work here
that you just can't really do at the
other places. Um if so if you're if
that's what your focus is then this um
then you know I I don't actually think
that there's any other organization in
the world that's doing both the frontier
biology and the frontier AI.
>> Yeah. Why are you here Alex?
>> I mean I think it's it's really simple.
Yeah. [laughter] Our our mission is take
care of prevent disease and and I think
you know there's it's it's just such a
>> you say with a straight face in a less
than 100 year timeline.
>> It's very serious now. There's no more
>> that's Yeah. Yeah. It's it's a really
powerful mission and I I think you know
you um
>> yeah I mean it's it's just you know
scientists I think are very motivated by
that. Yeah. It's it's it's something
people are deeply motivated by and I
think you know we're at this moment in
time where that actually seems like
something that can be achieved and I
think you know we're building a really
unique place um where where we're we're
tackling that problem and you know we
have the resources and I think kind of
the the right the the right things to
actually really really go after that and
do that.
>> Yeah. I I mean that resonates with me as
somebody who you know talks to and hires
a lot of research scientists. They want
to they want to know if you have the
data, if you have the tools, if you have
the compute, if you have the talent, and
then what the mission is. And so I
actually think uh uh I think that's
super competitive.
>> The other thing is that you don't need a
very large team, right? So I I think
it's like an interesting thing about the
world is that people care about
different missions and that's good. I
think that's like part of the whole I
part of why giving building these tools
and giving people the ability to explore
what they care about whether it's like
across science or just across everything
is like such a powerful way to make
progress in society is that people care
about different things and in order to
make progress in AI you don't need like
many many hundreds of AI researchers um
or thousands or anything like that I
think you can really make progress with
um you know a very strong group of a
dozen or a couple dozen people. And
yeah, I mean, finding people who like
care about this mission is not a
particularly hard thing. I mean, this is
like a super important thing in the
world. So, I think that that's yeah,
it's it's just kind of a cool thing
about the world is that people obviously
are are drawn to different different
missions.
>> So, I I think the like simplest mental
models that folks have even if they're
paying attention to the space are
essentially like okay, you know, um
structure prediction models for um for
proteins and protein protein interaction
models. Uh and then so there's this one
piece which is fundamental understanding
and then there's this like theory of
someday we're just going to be able to
like zero shot things into either the
clinic or the clinic with much uh much
better hit rate. Um what needs to happen
for us to go from ESM fold 2 to this
other piece
>> is that feasible?
>> I think that's a great question. I mean
I I would say that I'm really optimistic
on that. So I I think you know on the
one hand you know these are problems
that historically you know people could
spend kind of an entire career working
on like how do you how do you figure out
how to effectively optimize a drug? How
do you get it you know get it through
pre-clinical? How do you do the early
safety? I think that you know when you
have a new scientific paradigm kind of
you know questions that were once hard
um kind of become simplified through the
new paradigm. And so I'm very optimistic
that kind of many of these core problems
will be solved kind of in an emergent
way uh through these models. And I think
one great example of that is is
toxicity. Whereas if if you can kind of
really digitally um digitally kind of
simulate everything and be able to
predict, you know, where a drug is going
to distribute and bind across the human
body, you know, like you kind of have um
the the beginning of a solution to that
kind of problem. So I I I think that I
think that once you have these kind of
accurate representations at the
molecular level, you know, you we're
going to start to see really rapid
progress on a lot of these core
problems.
>> What is the most uh exciting use or
experimentation uh with the models
you've seen in the last week since
release?
>> Yeah, I mean it's just been great to
kind of see it get integrated in all
kinds of things. I think one of the
really interesting things that we've
been seeing is people kind of connecting
it with agentic systems to just kind of
do automated design um and and kind of
just automate that that whole process.
So it's it's really I think another
example of how you can kind of see
bringing together um Agentic and
Frontier AI with you know the ability to
have a world model for biology and
actually reason about biology and you
know really kind of start to automate um
the the entire design process.
>> Are you taking um you know how do you
decide what the next step in the
research agenda is? Um it's like world
model for biology and then I could I'm
just going to be very coarse here like I
could scale it up. I could add more
data. I could like adding data is a
non-trivial thing in terms of new
methods and domains. Like what is do you
take input from the um the larger
ecosystem about you know how people are
using it? What would make it more useful
or is it really like we we understand
like the next step of structures or
coverage that we're looking for?
>> I mean I think there's two things. So
like we have a view on kind of the next
big challenge which I think is you know
the the virtual cell and you know really
being able to kind of ladder up the
hierarchy of biological complexity to
the cell
>> and
>> sorry very basic question this virtual
cell model like what is the input and
output I should expect.
>> Yeah I mean I think there's different
views on that but I think kind of what
you ultimately want is
>> uh a system that can really model each
of the levels of complexity. So you know
the the the proteomic layer, the genetic
layer, the transcrytoic layer and
connect that to the phenotype. And you
need enough generality so that you can
um ask the model questions about uh a
new intervention in a context that it
hasn't been trained on and kind of get
uh an answer from it. And you know the
gap that we we need to close as a field
is being able to um uh really make those
predictions that can generalize. So
that's going to require you an enormous
effort to generate data.
>> Yeah. And then I mean in terms of what
you decide to do next, I think this is
like you know a pretty normal process of
constraint management, right? I mean
it's like like I think every lab in
every field across the world probably
feels compute constrained. I think that
that's probably true here too, right?
It's like um so I mean I know like you
know there's always questions. It's like
okay should we double down more on
advancing the protein piece? Should we
do more of the cellular stuff? fact that
those are kind of ongoing debates in
terms of how you sequence that. Um and
then yeah within that there's kind of
being at the paro frontier about how
much you want to train the different
models in order to like in and the size
of the models is also dependent on the
scale of the data that you have because
you know yeah for for obvious reasons.
So yeah, I mean I think it's there's
some of that is just where you want to
be on the curves and then normal
constraints, but I think that this is
like probably the same process that like
any research organization goes through
of like you want to go in all these
different directions and you're just
trying to constraint optimize and make
enough progress to do worldclass work at
one thing at a time while planting some
seeds that can um blossom over the the
next uh couple years as well. Yeah, this
has been the most dynamic uh period of
technology, at least I've seen over my
career. I mean, it's so exciting in
terms of everything that's happening
with AI and every week there's something
new that's changed.
>> Are you tired or invigorated?
>> I'm I'm both [clears throat]
feel like everybody's in manic phase.
Yes, it's a combination of invigorated
and exhausted.
>> Yeah, it's wonderful. And so, um I guess
uh you know, things are very
unpredictable right now. It's really
hard to know what's coming. we have this
um almost like early signs of
exponentation on the model side with
agentic uh flows that we're starting to
see in really interesting ways models
starting to help more and more with
models that's still very very early days
for that if you're thinking back 5 years
from now and you were to define what
success was relative to your efforts and
I know things have are very dynamic
things changed a lot but you have this
common thread of tooling for the biohub
you have a common thread of empowering
scientists at scale you're looking back
5 years from now is there a specific
thing that you really want to make sure
that you've accomplished or achieved or
a primary goal?
>> Well, I mean, I think we have a pretty
clear view of this like hierarchical set
of world models that we want to build
around biology. And the other part of
that is that we want to do the highest
quality work in the world, right? I
mean, and I think we're basically set up
to do that between having a world-class
AI research team and this collection of
of biohubs, which are worldclass life
sciences research organizations. I think
that that's like fundamentally a setup
that no other organization in the world
has. Um, but you know, you can have a
lot of great ingredients and that
doesn't guarantee that you succeed. So,
I mean, to me, like 5 years from now,
looking back, I I think you know, it's
other I'm sure other labs or efforts
will try to produce like things that
approximate what we're trying to do. And
I just think that we should be able to
do something that is meaningfully better
and a unique intellectual contribution
to the world, right? And I think that
that's kind of what you whenever you do
any kind of research that's what you're
trying to do, right? So um yeah, so if
we do that, I think we'll all feel very
good. I would also expect that at some
point we'll just start seeing a lot more
idea generation from the people using
the models. But I have enough faith that
that part will materialize that for me
it's more just about like making sure
that we do worldclass work and I think
if we do like the rest almost will take
care of itself.
>> Very last question for you. Snapshot of
it's mid 2026. What's the biggest update
in your own thinking about Biohub or the
domain from the last year?
>> Well, from the last year. I mean, you
joined in the last year. I mean, I think
the the biggest thing that that we
basically rotated and and I think in the
last year, we basically kind of
formalized that Biohub is the main focus
of our philanthropy. So, I think this is
like been a very big shift. Um but Alex
and the team coming in I think has been
interesting not only because it's it's a
world-class group right I mean you guys
have worked together for a while I also
I mean you talked about how stuff is
changing so much in the field I think
one thing that's underrated is like this
is like a extremely talented group of
people who also are like know each other
and work well together and like are
stable and good and like I think that
that also is underestimated in terms of
the compounding benefit benefit of like
people being able to like work well in a
stable environment over time. Um, so I
think that that's a really important
piece. Um, but part of what we wanted to
do was prior to Alex leading the effort,
the previous leaders of the Biohub were
basically primarily biologists who were
interested in technology, right? And
>> now I think we this is the point where
we really flipped that, right? where I
mean obviously you have a background in
biology as well but like you are
primarily an AI researcher who has a
background in in in AI in in in biology.
I think that that's like a deep
reflection on on kind of the way that I
that we expect that this is going to um
kind of drive more value in the future.
So those are probably the biggest
updates in the last year and in terms of
the work that that that we're doing. and
it's a new leader, not just a leader,
but a team. Um, that I think has been is
is like a really good. And then yeah, I
mean, I think on the rest of the
industry, it's like it's on track. I
mean, I think like every it's it's kind
of this crazy thing cuz like when you
have an exponentially growing curve, I
think the way that an exponential curve
feels is it's growing so quickly that
the the kind of emotional feeling is it
can't possibly keep going, right?
because like it's because it just like
but but I mean the nature of an
exponential curve is it doesn't just
keep going it keeps accelerating right
exponential growth is accelerating um so
I think that that has all these like
emotions and psychology attached to it
but I think fundamentally when you look
at the curve in the industry um the kind
of fundamental thing is it is on track
it it has remained on that curve um
which I think has all these very
profound implications for all of these
domains, but certainly it validates and
makes one feel very good about making a
very big investment in in the things
that that will play out if that if you
stay on that track. And it seems like we
are. So that I think is very good news.
>> I think the most important aspect of
what you're doing there is you're
actually closing the loop with the
actual biology
>> because with code and research it's
closed loop systems and so they're very
fast to iterate. This is a openloop
system so you're closing a loop and
that's
>> that's really crucial to progress.
>> Yeah. For me, one of the biggest changes
uh with the strategy we're driving now
and Alex at the helm is, you know,
before we had amazing teams moving
generally in the same direction and
understanding uh like the potential
uh collaborations and interconnectedness
of our work. But uh now we are arms
linked moving together.
It's very directed and um it's very
exciting. It's a little bit scary, but
it's like truly a team um playing off
each other in trying to make progress
towards this goal. And um that has taken
a lot of work, but also the maturity,
our teams being able to have their work
at a level of maturation where it
actually does make sense to interlock.
>> Amazing. Well, to teams being on the
curve, thank you guys for doing this.
>> Thank you for joining us.
>> Thank you.
Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
[music] Subscribe to our YouTube channel
if you want to see our faces. Follow the
show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or
wherever you listen. That way, you get a
new episode every week. [music] And sign
up for emails or find transcripts for
every episode at no-briers.com.